---
title: 5月读书报告

---
<h1 align = "center" >5月读书报告</h1>
&emsp; 《Estimating House Vacancy Rate in Metropolitan Areas using NPP-VIIRS Nighttime Light Composite Data》   Author :  Chen Zuoqi
<br>
<br>

>>Abstract: House vacancy rate (HVR) is an important index in assessing the healthiness of residential real estate market. Investigating HVR by field survey requires a lot of human and economic resources. The nighttime light (NTL) data, derived from Suomi National Polar-orbiting Partnership, can detect the artifi- cial light from the Earth surface, and have been used to study social-economic activities. This paper proposes a method for esti- mating the HVR in metropolitan areas using NPP-VIIRS NTL composite data. This method combines NTL composite data with land cover information to extract the light intensity in urbanized areas. Then, we estimate the light intensity values for nonvacancy areas, and use such values to calculate the HVR in correspond- ing regions. Fifteen metropolitan areas in the United States have been selected for this study, and the estimated HVR values are validated using corresponding statistical data. The experimental results show a strong correlation between our derived HVR val- ues and the statistical data. We also visualize the estimated HVR on maps, and discover that the spatial distribution of HVR is influenced by natural situations as well as the degree of urban development.

&emsp;&emsp;正如摘要中介绍，作者拟采用NTL数据对United States 15个大都会地区的HVR进行评估，以用来判断评价当地房地产市场是否健康。依据摘要中提到的数据，主要有NTL数据、the land cover information of metrepolitan area(Landsat数据)、其他统计调查数据，与自己实验所需的数据进行对比，并没有很大差异。
文章整体流程图如下:
![流程图]（./pro.png）